Kong Gateway: Getting started guide (#174)
Kong/developer.konghq.com: app/_how-tos/get-started-with-gateway.md

---
title: Get started with {{site.base_gateway}}
content_type: how_to

products:
    - gateway

works_on:
    - on-prem
    - konnect

plugins:
  - rate-limiting
  - key-auth
  - proxy-cache

entities: 
  - service
  - plugin
  - consumer
  - target
  - upstream

tags:
    - get-started

tldr: 
  q: What is {{site.base_gateway}}, and how can I get started with it?
  a: |
    [{{site.base_gateway}}](/gateway/) is a lightweight, fast, and flexible cloud-native API gateway. 
    {{site.base_gateway}} sits in front of your service applications, dynamically controlling, analyzing, and 
    routing requests and responses. {{site.base_gateway}} implements your API traffic policies 
    by using a flexible, low-code, plugin-based approach. 
    <br><br>
    This tutorial will help you get started with {{site.base_gateway}} by setting up a local installation
    and walking through some common API management tasks. 

    {:.info}
    > **Note:**

>     > This quickstart runs a simple Docker container to explore {{ site.base_gateway }}'s capabilities. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    > This quickstart runs a Docker container to explore {{ site.base_gateway }}'s capabilities. 
```

>     If you want to run {{ site.base_gateway }} as a part of a production-ready API platform, start on the [Install](/gateway/install/) page.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    If you want to run {{ site.base_gateway }} as a part of a production-ready API platform, start with the [Install](/gateway/install/) page.
```

tools:
    - deck
  
prereqs:
  inline:
    - title: cURL
      content: |
        [cURL](https://curl.se/) is used to send requests to {{site.base_gateway}}. 
        `curl` is pre-installed on most systems.
      icon_url: /assets/icons/code.svg

cleanup:
  inline:
    - title: Clean up Konnect environment
      include_content: cleanup/platform/konnect
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
    - title: Destroy the {{site.base_gateway}} container
      include_content: cleanup/products/gateway
      icon_url: /assets/icons/gateway.svg
---

## 1. Check that {{site.base_gateway}} is running

We'll be using decK for this tutorial, so let's check that {{site.base_gateway}} is running and that decK can access it:

```sh
deck gateway ping
```

If everything is running, then you should get the following response:

```sh
Successfully connected to Kong!
Kong version: 3.9.0.0
```
{:.no-copy-code}

## 2. Create a Service

{{site.base_gateway}} administrators work with an object model to define their
desired traffic management policies. Two important objects in that model are 
[Services](/gateway/entities/service/) and 
[Routes](/gateway/entities/route/). Together, 

> Services and Routes define the routing path that requests and responses will take 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Services and Routes define the path that requests and responses will take 
```

through the system.

Add the following content to `kong.yaml` to create a 
Service mapped to the upstream URL `https://httpbin.konghq.com`:

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  services:
    - name: example_service
      url: "https://httpbin.konghq.com"
{% endentity_examples %}

In this example, you are configuring the following attributes:

* `name`: The name of the Service

> * `url` : An argument that populates the `host`, `port`, and `path` attributes of the Service

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `url` : An attribute that populates the `host`, `port`, and `path` of the Service
```

## 3. Create a Route 

Routes define how requests are proxied by {{site.base_gateway}}. You can
create a Route associated with a specific Service by sending a `POST`

> request to the Service URL.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
request to the URL defined in the service.
```

Configure a new Route on the `/mock` path to direct traffic to the `example_service` Service:

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  routes:
    - name: example_route
      service:
        id: example_service
      paths:
        - /mock
{% endentity_examples %}

### Apply configuration

{% include how-tos/steps/apply_config.md %}

### Validate the Service and Route by proxying a request

Using the Service and Route, you can now 
access `https://httpbin.konghq.com/` using `http://localhost:8000/mock`.

> Httpbin provides an `/anything` resource which will echo back to clients information about requests made to it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Httpbin provides an `/anything` resource which will return information about requests made to it.
```

Proxy a request through {{site.base_gateway}} to the `/anything` resource:

```sh
curl -X GET http://localhost:8000/mock/anything
```

## 4. Enable rate limiting

[Rate limiting](/rate-limiting/) is used to control the rate of requests sent to an upstream Service. 
It can be used to prevent DoS attacks, limit web scraping, and other forms of overuse. 
Without rate limiting, clients have unlimited access to your upstream Services, which
may negatively impact availability.

In this example, we'll use the [Rate Limiting plugin](/plugins/rate-limiting/).

> Let's install the plugin globally, which means that *every* proxy request to {{site.base_gateway}}
> will be subject to rate limit enforcement:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Installing the plugin globally means that *every* proxy request to {{site.base_gateway}}
will be subject to rate limit enforcement:
```

* {{site.base_gateway}} will cache all `GET` requests that result in response codes of `200`
* It will also cache responses with the `Content-Type` headers that *equal* `application/json`
* `cache_ttl` instructs the plugin to flush values after 5 seconds
* `config.strategy=memory` specifies the backing data store for cached responses. More
information on `strategy` can be found in the [parameter reference](/plugins/proxy-cache/reference/)
for the Proxy Cache plugin.

### Validate proxy caching

You can check that the Proxy Cache plugin is working by sending `GET` requests and examining
the returned headers.

[Sync your decK file](#apply-configuration), then make an initial request to the `/mock` Route. 
The Proxy Cache plugin returns status
information headers prefixed with `X-Cache`, so you can use `grep` to filter for that information:

```
curl -i -s -XGET http://localhost:8000/mock/anything | grep X-Cache
```

On the initial request, there should be no cached responses, and the headers will indicate this with
`X-Cache-Status: Miss`.

```
X-Cache-Key: c9e1d4c8e5fd8209a5969eb3b0e85bc6
X-Cache-Status: Miss
```
{:.no-copy-code}

> Within 5 seconds of the initial request, repeat the command to send an identical request and the
> headers will indicate a cache `Hit`:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Within 5 seconds of the initial request, repeat the command to send an identical request. The
headers will indicate a cache `Hit`:
```

```
X-Cache-Key: c9e1d4c8e5fd8209a5969eb3b0e85bc6
X-Cache-Status: Hit
```
{:.no-copy-code}

## 5. Enable key authentication

> Authentication is the process of verifying that a requester has permissions to access a resource. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Authentication is the process of verifying that the requester has permissions to access a resource. 
```

As its name implies, API gateway authentication authenticates the flow of data to and from your upstream services. 

### Enable Key Auth plugin

For this example, we'll use the [Key Authentication plugin](/plugins/key-auth/). In key authentication, 
{{site.base_gateway}} generates and associates an API key with a [Consumer](/gateway/entities/consumer/). 
That key is the authentication secret presented by the client when making subsequent requests. 
{{site.base_gateway}} approves or denies requests based on the validity of the presented key.

{% entity_examples %}
entities:
  plugins:
    - name: key-auth
      config:
        key_names:
          - apikey
append_to_existing_section: true
{% endentity_examples %}

The `key_names` configuration field defines the name of the field that the
plugin looks for to read the key when authenticating requests. 
The plugin looks for the field in headers, query string parameters, and the request body.

### Create a Consumer

> Consumers let you identify the client that's interacting with {{site.base_gateway}}, so you need a Consumer for key authentication to work.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Consumers let you identify the client that's interacting with {{site.base_gateway}}. You need to create a Consumer for key authentication to work.
```

      keyauth_credentials:
        - key: top-secret-key
{% endentity_examples %}

{:.warning}
> For the purposes of this tutorial, we have assigned an example key value. 
In production, it is recommended that you let the API gateway autogenerate a complex key for you. 
Only specify a key for testing or when migrating existing systems.

### Validate key authentication

[Sync your decK file](#apply-configuration), then try to access the Service without providing the key:
   
```sh
curl -i http://localhost:8000/mock/anything
```

Since you enabled key authentication globally, you will receive an unauthorized response:

```text
HTTP/1.1 401 Unauthorized
...
{
    "message": "No API key found in request"
}
```
{:.no-copy-code}

Now, let's send a request with the valid key in the `apikey` header:

```sh
curl -i http://localhost:8000/mock/anything \
  -H 'apikey:top-secret-key'
```

You will receive a `200 OK` response.

## 6. Enable load balancing

Load balancing is a method of distributing API request traffic across
multiple upstream services. Load balancing improves overall system responsiveness
and reduces failures by preventing overloading of individual resources. 

> In the following example, you’ll use an application deployed across two different servers, or upstream targets. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In the following example, you’ll use an application deployed across two different hosts, or upstream targets. 
```

> {{site.base_gateway}} needs to load balance across both servers, so that if one of the servers is unavailable, 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{site.base_gateway}} needs to load balance across the upstreams, so that if one of them is unavailable, 
```

> it automatically detects the problem and routes all traffic to the working server.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it automatically detects the problem and routes all traffic to the working upstream.
```
